hi rich guru before bowling ball comm
swing your bowling arm up not out well
that's an old tip we used to hear that
years ago reach up not out well what
that simply means and it can work today
if you're a bowler who's losing your
balance at the foul line your balance
leg comes off the ground your head and
shoulders kind of fall forward over the
foul line and you're overextending your
bowling shoulder and gets way ahead of
your opposite shoulder trying to reach
real far out over the foul line
you're gonna get an ineffective release
you might pull the ball off target
you won't regulate your ball speed as
well and you won't regulate your lost
distance so there's a lot of bad things
can happen if you get out of position at
the foul line and one of the things that
will keep you in position as your ball
swings back to the top of your backswing
as you enter in the releasing area and
you begin your follow-through motion try
to let your arm go up to its natural
extension to your full follow-through
position so if your arm from your wrist
to the top of your or the pivot point on
your bowling shoulder and let's say it's
30 or 31 inches
don't make don't try to make it 40 or 41
inches because you'll thrust the shot
the bowling shoulder out in front of
your opposite shoulder trying to reach
too far out on the lane to deliver the
ball and you can pull your shot off
target let's just swing come up not out
it'll come up quite nicely you keep your
dude in fact you can have your bowling
shoulder back behind your non bowling
shoulder so your shoulders and hip
alignment are open to accommodate an
inside out of the Liberty angle if you
book the ball a good bit down the lane
toward the break point and you can still
follow through all the way without
thrusting the bowling shoulder forward
it doesn't matter if the bowling
shoulder opens quite a bit going back
just don't want to get too far ahead of
this this shoulder here I'll let your
swing come up not out if you learn to do
that whether you're a power player a
stroker and in between type player you
work on your fundamentals on the
practice lane and you can do that during
competition the quality of your
deliveries will improve again you'll
regulate your speed you'll get a
consistent hand action delivering the
ball you'll get the ball over the lane
and
produced in the Delaine surface
consistently and you can keep your
alignment and your your swing path and
the ball path as it leaves your hand
going down the lane very consistent and
that's going to lead to good results
more strikes and higher bowling scores I
hope this tip cups thank you